the Israeli Army says it has intercepted
a surfac to a missile fired from Lebanon
it says it was aimed at one of its
military drones near Upper Galilee an
Israeli drone strike then targeted the
launch site in Lebanon tensions have
been rising at the border between the
two countries for 3 weeks thousands of
people have been forced to leave their
homes by rocket fire and skirmishes
between Israeli forces and the Lebanese
armed group Hezbollah now some fighting
took place near our reporter Ali hasham
and his team
hold
oh Ali Hashim joins us now live from Nur
in southern Lebanon and first of all Ali
I hope that you and your team are all
okay can you just explain what happened
a short time
ago well rest assured we're all okay um
actually few minutes ago maybe an hour
ago there was an attack with guided
missiles on an Israeli uh military post
the post that's just behind me now I
think the some plumes of smoke that are
clear then there was a drone now we
didn't know whose drone is this is it
aah drone or it's an Israeli drone and
then when when we were standing the
Drone exploded so it seems that drone
was intercepted now till the moment we
don't have a clear statement regarding
what happened but we saw it exploding
and then hitting the uh piece of land
behind us an open area uh we spoke to
the Lebanese Army regarding what's
happening they're right now
investigating to find the what's
remained from uh this uh small drone or
big drone we we don't know even the the
size but it was very close so this was
the situation there was an attack by the
hisbah fighters right now there's
also shelling behind us and Israel is
ret
ating I'll leave the camera of our we
can see smoke rising from one of the one
of the hilltops there as
well this is this is the hanita Israeli
position there are several positions
here on this hill it's a it's a Border
Hill between Lebanon and Israel in
Lebanon they call it the launa hills so
there are several Israeli military posts
from the uh
Edge
okay there's another shell now from the
military post on the edge of the Hill
which is the Israeli Naval Base then
this post that maybe you can see uh
clearly and it's the hanita uh military
uh position also there there's the uh
shamut military position these are more
mainly aimed at intercepting and
communicating of course there are
defensive uh military positions On the
Border hasb has been hitting these uh
positions for some time now since 20
days and now we're hearing more attacks
now whether this is in uh incoming or
ongoing we don't know mhm uh but at
least there there is clear Israeli
shelling going on right now and is this
worse you can see it is this worse than
what you have seen in in the last few
days is this escalating at
all well this is this has been the
situation for the past few days but in
the past couple of days things were were
a bit calm today it seems things are
escalating once again and let me just
mention that also today on the Eastern
side there was um an interception of an
uh surface to a missile that was
directed by hisbah on an Israeli
military drone now the interception was
through the Israeli defense systems and
the interception happened over Lebanon
that was a very huge explosion we had
over here it's actually very far from
here but it was a huge expl explosion
what we are seeing right now maybe could
be a a new phase we've been seeing the
the situation gradually uh escalating
from um kind of a depth of 2 3
kilometers on both sides to the depth of
five kilometers recently the Israelis
hit a uh uh one of the targets that was
around 7 kilometers away from the border
so what we are seeing could be also a
kind of a gradual escalation a
continuation of this gradual escalation
and uh also given the fact that both
sides aren't yet using their top Tire
weapons in the in the confrontation
hasah is not using its Precision
missiles the Israelis are still limiting
their scope of uh retaliation so this is
uh maybe a bit early uh stages of of the
front here it's still the the front is
still an operation area that's becoming
a warfront but you know there's a fine
line yet there's a fine line and now
with the situation gradually escalating
in Gaza I mean ground wise with Israel
announcing ground operations so it would
depend more on how the situation is in
the field in Gaza to see how things will
escalate over here because they are
linking it to the to to each other
hisbah is linking it and at the same
time the Palestinian groups are mainly
Hamas is urging for more help from the
Lebanese front and obviously this region
is no longer safe for civilians we know
thousands have been displaced where
exactly have they gone what are they
doing
now well over the past uh three weeks
many people living on the borders for
example we are in in a Border Town in
nakura and uh on the just the The
Village after here is Al and these all
Villages ones on this line most of the
people decided to leave now where are
they living leaving to some of them have
already houses and this is a minority
while while the majority will need to go
to schools provided by the government
maybe to family members to to the
relatives this is how things are but
till the moment the the the way the
Lebanese government is dealing with the
uh displaced people isn't really um uh
going uh in parallel with the level of
uh uh situation the situation is is is
bad it's dire for people of the Border
towns and they want more to be in a
better situation I mean living in
schools now the the winter is on uh is
coming and uh you have schools students
leaving their schools and going to
another city or another region or
another area so all these issues need
maybe uh coordination they need services
and they need budget at the time when
the Lebanese government is bankrupt and
this is another issue that the Lebanese
are taking into consideration the
government is bankrupt the people are
already uh living and and and and going
through all these difficulties economic
difficulties since more than three four
years with the currency uh uh losing its
its value it's it's very bad times for
the Lebanese okay thank you so much for
that Ali we really do appreciate it hope
you and your team uh stay as safe as you
possibly can there thank you so much